[Music]
the solar system is not at all like you
think it is the earth is round mercury
is the hottest planet and the Sun is
yellow it would seem that these are all
simple undeniable facts known even to
those with no real knowledge of
astronomy
however it's time to think again number
seven does the moon have a dark side the
view that the sun's rays shine only on
one side of the moon leaving the other
side in permanent darkness is quite
widespread
this belief results from the fact that
our satellite only ever has one side
facing the earth while the other is
impossible to observe from the ground in
fact the Sun shines and warms both the
visible and invisible parts of the Moon
the truth is that the period the moon
takes to revolve on its axis coincides
with the amount of time it takes to
orbit the Earth that's why we only see
one side of it number six is the
temperature of mercury higher than on
other planets
everything seems logical here mercury is
closest to the Sun therefore its surface
temperature must be higher than all the
other planets however the hottest planet
in the solar system is actually Venus
despite the fact it's 31 million 70,000
miles or 50 million kilometers further
away from the Sun than its neighbor the
average daytime temperature on Mercury
is around 662 degrees Fahrenheit or 350
degrees Celsius whereas it can reach 896
degrees Fahrenheit or 480 degrees
Celsius on Venus the reason for this is
Venus's atmosphere mercury has
practically no atmosphere to speak of
whereas Venus has a very thick one made
up almost entirely of carbon dioxide
this creates a strong greenhouse effect
trapping all the sun's heat and making
Venus incredibly hot
number five is the Sun just a big ball
of fire everyone knows that the
temperature at the Sun surface is
unimaginably high more than ten thousand
two hundred ninety degrees Fahrenheit or
five thousand seven hundred degrees
Celsius so it's logical to assume that
it's simply like a giant bonfire however
this isn't an accurate comparison what
we think of as fire is in fact energy in
the form of heat and light produced by
the thermonuclear reactions occurring in
the Stars core a thermonuclear reaction
involves changing some elements into
others and it's accompanied by the
ejection of heat and light energy this
energy passes through all the layers of
the Sun to reach the surface the
photosphere which to us seems like it's
burning number four is the Sun really
yellow everyone who knows a little about
astronomy will tell you that the Sun
belongs to the category of stars known
as yellow dwarf in turn it's logical to
assume it is yellow however like all
other yellow dwarf stars the Sun is
completely white so why do human eyes
see it as yellow it's all down to
Earth's atmosphere as is well known
light which has a long wavelength in the
yellow and red part of the spectrum
passes through the atmosphere best of
all light and shorter wavelengths in the
green - violet part of the spectrum
which is what the Sun mainly emits gets
dissipated to a greater degree by the
atmosphere the effect of this is to make
the Sun appear yellow if you were to
leave the atmosphere the Sun would take
on its true color number three with a
human being explode in space without a
spacesuit this mistaken view is of
course the result of various Hollywood
movies depicting what would supposedly
if a person found themselves outside a
spaceship in reality our skin is
flexible enough to keep all our internal
organs in place the walls of the blood
vessels would also prevent the blood
from boiling thanks to their elasticity
moreover in the absence of external
pressure in the space environment the
temperature at which blood boils rises
to 115 degrees Fahrenheit were 46
degrees Celsius which is significantly
higher than the temperature of the human
body instead it is the water contained
in the cells of our skin that begins to
boil in a vacuum the result is that the
human body would expand in size in such
an environment but it definitely
wouldn't explode the main reason why a
person would die is the lack of oxygen
just 15 seconds after entering a vacuum
without a spacesuit the individual would
lose consciousness and they would be
dead in two minutes
number two is the earth further from the
Sun in winter than in summer here's one
more myth that initially seems logical
if winter is colder than summer that
must mean earth is farther from its
source of heat right however the reality
is the opposite during the coldest part
of the year our planet is three million
one hundred and seven thousand miles for
five million kilometres closer to the
Sun than in summer how can this be it
all comes down to the fact that in
addition to orbiting the Sun the earth
also completes rotations around its own
axis that's why we have the change from
night to day the axis of the planet
which passes through the North and South
Poles is not exactly perpendicular to
its orbit and the sun's rays which fall
on it in turn for half of the year a
large portion of the sun's warmth falls
on the southern hemisphere while in the
other half it falls on the northern one
which produces a change of seasons as is
well known the summer in the southern
hemisphere is warmer than it is in the
north this is the result of the fact
that the earth comes closest to the Sun
in January that is when the southern
part of the world is experiencing summer
number one is the earth perfectly
spherical
this is true yet paradoxically not true
at the same time the shape of our planet
is constantly changing due to the
constant movement of the continental
plates of course the rate at which they
move is tiny on average about 2 inches
or 5 centimeters a year however this
still has an effect on the planet's
appearance which is in fact far from
perfectly round
however we should point out that the
incredible image that supposedly shows
the real shape of the earth is actually
a model of the planets gravity it was
created from satellite data and doesn't
show the true shape of our home instead
it merely demonstrates the differences
in the strength of the Earth's gravity
at different points around it did you
enjoy watching the video did you learn
anything new today if so don't forget to
hit the like button below the video
share it with others and click subscribe
to stay on the bright side of life